[Music]
what I'm going to do in the spirit of
collaborative creativity is simply
repeat many of the points that the three
people before me have already made but
do them this is called creative
collaboration it's actually called
borrowing but do it for a particular
perspective and that is to ask about the
role of users and consumers in this
emerging world of collaborative
creativity that Jim Lee and others have
talked about let me just ask you to
start with this simple question who
invented the mountain bike because
traditional economic theory would say
well the mountain bike was probably
invented by some big bike corporation
that had a big R&D lab where they were
thinking up new projects and it came out
of there it didn't come from there
another answer might be well it came
from a sort of lone genius working in
his garage who working away on different
kinds of bikes comes up with a bike out
of thin air it didn't come from there
the mountain bike came from users came
from young users particularly a group in
Northern California who are frustrated
with traditional racing bikes which are
those sort of bikes that Eddy Merckx
rode or your big brother and they're
very glamorous but also frustrated with
the bikes your dad rode which was sort
of had big handlebars like that and they
were too heavy so they got the frames
from these big bikes put them together
with the gears from the mountain from
the racing bikes got the brakes from
motorcycles and sort of mixed and
matched various ingredients and for the
first I know three to five years of
their life mountain bikes were known as
clunkers and they were just made in a
community of bikers mainly in Northern
California and they're one of these
companies that was importing parts for
the clunkers decided to set up in
business start selling them to other
people and gradually another company
emerged out of that marin and it
probably was I don't know 10 maybe even
15 years before the big bike companies
realized there was a market 30 years
later mountain bike sales and mountain
bike equipment account for 65% of bike
sales in America that's 58 billion
dollars this is a category entirely
created by consumers
that would not have been created by the
mainstream bike market because they
couldn't see the need the opportunity
they didn't have the incentive to
innovate the one thing I think I
disagree with about yokai's presentation
is when he said the Internet causes this
distributed capacity for innovation to
come alive it's when the internet
combines with these kinds of passionate
Pro Am consumers who are knowledgeable
they've got the incentive to innovate
they've got the tools they want to that
you get this kind of explosion of
creative collaboration and out of that
you get the need for the kind of things
that Jimmy was talking about which is
our new kinds of organization or a
better way to put it how do we organize
ourselves without organizations that's
now possible
you don't need an organization to be
organized to achieve large and complex
tasks like innovating new software
programs so this is a huge challenge to
the way we think creativity comes about
the traditional view still enshrined in
much of the way that we think about
creativity in organizations in
government is that creativity is about
special people wear baseball caps are
wrong way around come to conferences
like this in special places elite
universities R&D labs in the forests
water maybe special rooms in companies
painted funny colors you know bean bags
maybe the odd table football table
special people special places think up
special ideas then you have a pipeline
that takes the ideas down to the waiting
consumers who are passive they can say
yes or no to the invention that's the
idea of creativity what's the policy
recommendation out of that if you're in
government or you're running a large
company more special piece of people
more special places build creative
clusters in cities create more R&D parks
so on and so forth expand the pipeline
down to the consumers well this view I
think is increasingly wrong I think it's
always been wrong because I think always
creativity is being highly collaborative
and it's probably been largely
interactive but it's increasingly wrong
and one of the reasons it's wrong
is that the ideas of flowing back up the
pipeline the ideas are coming back from
the consumers and they're often ahead of
the producers why is that
well one issue is that radical
innovation when you've got ideas that
affect a large number of technologies or
people have great deal of uncertainty
attached to them the payoffs to
innovation are greatest
where the uncertainty is highest and
when you get a radical innovation it's
often very uncertain how it can be
applied the whole history of telephony
is a story of dealing with that
uncertainty the very first landline
telephones the inventors thought that
they would be used to for people to
listen in to live performances from West
End theatres when the mobile telephone
companies invented SMS they had no idea
what it was for it was only when that
technology got into the hands of teenage
users that they invented the use so the
more radical the innovation that more
the uncertainty the more you need
innovation in use to work out what a
technology is for all of our patents our
entire approach to patents and invention
is based on the idea that the inventor
knows what the invention is for we can
say what it's for more and more the
inventors of things will not be able to
say that in advance it will be worked
out in use in collaboration with users
we like to think that invention is a
sort of moment of creation there is a
moment of birth when someone comes up
with an idea the truth is that most
creativity is cumulative and
collaborative like Wikipedia it develops
over a long period of time the second
reason why users are more and more
important is that they are the source of
big disruptive innovations if you want
to find the big new ideas it's often
difficult to find them in mainstream
markets in big organizations and just
look inside large organizations and you
will see why that is so so you're in a
big corporation you're obviously keen to
go up the
corporate ladder do you go into your
board and say look I've got a fantastic
idea for an embryonic product in a
marginal market with consumers we've
never dealt with before and I'm not sure
it's going to have a big payoff but it
could be really really big in future
know what you do if you go and you say
I've got fantastic idea for an
incremental innovation to an existing
product we sell through existing
channels to existing users and I can
guarantee you get this much return out
of it over the next three years big
corporations have an inbuilt tendency to
reinforce past success they've got so
much sunk in it that it's very difficult
for them to spot emerging new markets
emerging new markets then are the
breeding grounds for passionate users
best example who in the music industry
30 years ago would have said yes let's
invent a musical form which is all about
dispossessed black men in ghettos
expressing their frustration with the
world through a form of music that many
people find initially quite difficult to
listen to that sounds like a winner
we'll go with it so what happens rap
music is created by the users they do it
on their own tapes with their own
recording equipment they distribute it
themselves 30 years later rap music is
the dominant musical form of popular
culture would never have come from the
big companies had to start this is the
third point with these programs this is
the the phrase that I've used in some
stuff which I've done with a think-tank
in London called demos where we've been
looking at these people who are amateurs
ie they do it for the love of it but
they want to do it to very high
standards and across a whole range of
fields from software astronomy Natural
Sciences vast areas of leisure and
culture like kite surfing so on and so
forth you find people who want to do
things because they love it but they
want to do these things to very high
standards they work at their leisure if
you like they take their leisure very
seriously they acquire skills they
invest time they use technology that's
getting cheaper it's not just the
Internet
cameras design technology leisure
technology surfboard so on and so forth
largely through globalization a lot of
this equipment has got a lot cheaper
more knowledgeable consumers more
educated more able to connect with one
another more able to do things together
consumption in that sense is an
expression of their productive potential
why we found people were interested in
this is that at work they don't feel
very expressed they don't feel as if
they're doing something that really
matters to them so they pick up these
kinds of activities this has huge
organizational implications for very
large areas of life take astronomy as an
example which your kai has already
mentioned twenty years ago thirty years
ago only big professional astronomers
with very big telescopes could see far
into space and there's a big telescope
in northern England called Jodrell Bank
and when I was a kid it was amazing
because the moon shots would take off
and this thing would move on rails and
it was huge it was absolutely enormous
now six amateur astronomers working with
the internet with Dobsonian digital
telescopes which are pretty much
open-source with some light sensors
developed over the last ten years the
internet they can do what Jodrell Bank
could only do 30 years ago so here in
astronomy you have this fast explosion
of new productive resources the users
can be producers what does this mean
then for our organizational landscape
well just imagine a world for the moment
divided into two camps over here you've
got the old traditional corporate model
special people special places patent it
push it down the pipeline to largely
waiting passive consumers over here
let's imagine we've got Wikipedia Linux
and Beyond open source this is open this
is closed this is new this is
traditional well the first thing you can
say I think with certainty is what York
is said already is there is a great big
struggle between these two
organizational forms these people over
there
we'll do everything they can to stop
these kinds of organizations succeeding
because they're threatened by them and
so the debates about copyright digital
rights so on and so forth these are all
about trying to stifle in my view these
kinds of organizations what we're seeing
is a complete corruption of the idea of
patents and copyright meant to be a way
to incentivize intervention meant to be
a way to orchestrate the dissemination
of knowledge they are increasingly being
used by large companies to create
thickets of patents to prevent
innovation taking place let me just give
you two examples the first is imagine
yourself going to a venture capitalist
and saying I've got a fantastic idea
I've invented this in brilliant new
program that is much much better than
Microsoft Outlook which venture
capitalists in their right mind is going
to give you any money to set up a
venture competing with Microsoft with
Microsoft Outlook no one that is why the
competition with Microsoft is bound to
come will only come from an open source
kind of project so there is a huge
competitive argument about sustaining
the capacity for open source and
consumer driven innovation because it's
one of the greatest competitive levers
against monopolies there'll be huge
professional arguments as well because
the professionals over here in these
closed organizations they might be
academics they might be programmers they
might be doctors they might be
journalists my former profession say no
no you can't trust these people over
here and when I started in journalism
Financial Times 20 years ago it was very
very exciting to see someone reading the
newspaper and you'd kind of look over
their shoulder on the tube to see if
they were reading you on reading your
article usually they were reading the
share prices and the the bit of the
paper with your article on was on the
floor or something like that and you
know I haven't say what are they doing
they're not reading my brilliant article
and we allowed users readers to places
where they could contribute to the paper
the lettuce page where they could write
a letter in and we would condescend to
them cut it in half and print it three
days later
or the op-ed page where if they knew the
editor had been to school with him slept
with his wife they could write an
article for the op-ed page
those were the two places shock horror
now the readers want to be writers and
publishers that's not their role they're
supposed to read what we write but they
don't want to be journalists the
journalists think that the the bloggers
want to be journalists they don't want
to be Jonas they just want to have a
voice they want to as Jimmy said they
want to have a dialogue a conversation
they want to be part of that flow of
information what's happening there is
that the whole domain of creativity is
expanding so there's going to be a
tremendous struggle but also there's
going to be tremendous movement from the
open to the closed what you'll see I
think is two things that are critical
and these I think are two challenges for
the open movement the first is can we
really survive on volunteers if this is
so critical do we not need it funded
organize supported in much more
structured ways I think the idea of
creating the Red Cross for information
and knowledge is a fantastic idea but
can we really organize that just on
volunteers what kind of changes do we
need in public policy and funding to
make that possible what's the role of
the BBC for instance in that world what
should be the role of public policy and
finally what I think you will see is the
intelligent closed organizations moving
increasingly in the open direction so
it's not going to be a contest between
two camps but in between them you'll
find all sorts of interesting places
that people will occupy new
organizational models coming about
mixing closed and open in tricky ways it
won't be so clear-cut it won't be
Microsoft versus Linux there'll be all
sorts of things in between and those
organizational models it turns out
incredibly powerful and the people who
can understand them will be very very
successful let me just give you one
final example of what that means I was
in Shanghai in an office block built on
what was a rice paddy five years ago one
of the 2,500 skyscrapers they
built in Shanghai in the last ten years
and I was having dinner with this guy
called Timothy Chan Timothy Chan set up
an internet business in 2000 didn't go
into the internet kept his money decided
to go into computer games he runs a
company called Shanda which is the
largest computer games company in China
9000 servers all over China has 250
million subscribers and any one time
there are 4 million people playing one
of his games how many people does he
employ to service that population 500
people well how can he service two and a
half 250 million people from 500
employees because basically he doesn't
service them he gives them a platform he
gives them some rules he gives them the
tools and then he kind of orchestrates
the conversation he orchestrates the
action but actually a lot of the content
is created by the users themselves and
it creates a kind of stickiness between
the community and the company which is
really really powerful best measure of
that so you go into one of his games you
create a character that you develop in
the course of the game if for some
reason your credit card bounces or
there's some other problem you've used
your character you've got two options
one option you can create a new
character right from scratch but we've
no other history of your player that
cost about $100 or you can get on a
plane fly to Shanghai cue up outside
shonda's offices cost probably $600 $700
and reclaim your character get your
history back every morning there are 600
people queuing outside their offices to
reclaim these characters so this is
about companies built on communities
that provide communities with tools
resources platforms in which they can
share he's not open-source but it's very
very powerful so here is one of the
challenges I think for people like me
who do a lot of work with government if
you're a games company
and you've got a million players in your
game you only need one percent of them
to be co-developers contributing ideas
and you've got a development workforce
of 10,000 people imagine you could take
all the children in education in Britain
and 1 percent of them were Co developers
of Education what would that do to the
resources available to the education
system or if you've got 1% of the
patients in the NHS to in some sense be
capo producers of health the the reason
why despite all the efforts to cut it
down to constrain it hold it back why
these open models will still start
emerging with tremendous force is that
they multiply our productive resources
and one of the reasons they do that is
that they turn users into producers
consumers into designers thank you very
much
what if great ideas weren't cherished
what if they carried no importance
[Music]
or held no value there is a place where
artistic vision is protected where
inspired design ideas live on to become
ultimate driving machines
[Music]
you